---
id: 3ab17fb9-99f3-407d-a42c-dfdfe9b5884b
blueprint: article
title: 'Rapid App Development with Laravel Sail'
excerpt: 'Learn how to get started build your Laravel apps with the official Docker development environment for Laravel.'
featured: false
updated_by: 4c87d8f0-5c2e-43cf-8e72-5b08d175f266
updated_at: 1676136423
---
Laravel Sail is `docker-compose` for Laravel, on steroids. Laravel makes it incredibly easy to get started building you first, or next, project. All you need to do is install [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/). Once you have that installed, creating a new project can be done from the command line. For example, to create a new project called blog would look something like this:

```bash
curl -s "https://laravel.build/blog" | bash
```
This command will install a number of things. Firstly, it’ll install a container running Ubuntu 22.04 and a number of services like supervisor and PHP. This container is the “entry point” for web requests into your project. Secondly, this command will pull and build a MySQL container for your database, and a Redis container for any Redis based caching you’ll want to utilise when developing your application. Finally, Laravel will pull and install a `meilisearch`, a `mailpit` and a `selenium` container for additional services, such as sending emails, should you need them.

If you wish to restrict which services Laravel installs into your development environment, you may do so by appending a `?with=` query string parameter:

```bash
curl -s "https://laravel.build/blog?with=mysql,redis" | Bash
```

### The Sail CLI

Sail ships with a useful vendor binary. This is essentially a wrapper for docker compose but makes development life incredibly easy. For example, you can run migrations via `./vendor/bin/sail artisan migrate`, or interact directly with your application via Laravel Tinker, a powerful REPL (read-evaluate-print-loop) for the Laravel Framework with `./vendor/bin/sail artisan tinker`. 

Tip: If you would rather not type `./vendor/bin/sail` every time, you can configure a bash alias with:

```bash
alias sail='[ -f sail ] && sh sail || sh vendor/bin/sail'
```

```php
<?php

namespace App\Models;

use Illuminate\Database\Model;

class Post extends Model
{
  protected $fillable = [
    'title', 'excerpt', 'content',
  ];
}
```