---
id: 3cb0ee68-0b0d-4f15-b4a2-3c9817a03020
published: false
blueprint: article
title: 'Rapid App Development with Laravel Sail'
excerpt: 'Learn how to get started build your Laravel apps with the official Docker development environment for Laravel.'
tags:
  - laravel
  - sail
  - docker
  - development
  - macos
featured: false
post_to_twitter: false
updated_by: 4c87d8f0-5c2e-43cf-8e72-5b08d175f266
updated_at: 1688167382
---
Laravel makes it incredibly easy to get started building you first, or next, application. All you need to do is install [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/). Once you have that installed, creating a new project can be done from the command line. For example, creating a new project called "blog" would look something like this:

```bash
curl -s "https://laravel.build/blog" | bash
```

This command will install a number of things. Firstly, it’ll create a container running Ubuntu with a number of services like PHP and composer. This container is the “entry point” for web requests into your project. Secondly, this command will pull and build a MySQL container for your database, and a Redis container for any Redis based caching you’ll want to utilise when developing your application. Finally, Laravel will pull and install a `meilisearch`, a `mailpit` and a `selenium` container for additional services, such as sending emails, should you need them.

If you wish to restrict which services Laravel installs into your development environment, you may do so by appending a `?with=` query string parameter:

```bash
curl -s "https://laravel.build/blog?with=mysql,redis" | Bash
```

## The Sail CLI

Sail ships with a useful vendor binary. This is essentially a wrapper for docker compose but makes development life incredibly easy. For example, you can run migrations via `./vendor/bin/sail artisan migrate`, or interact directly with your application via Laravel Tinker, a powerful REPL (read-evaluate-print-loop) for the Laravel Framework with `./vendor/bin/sail tinker`.

Tip: If you would rather not type `./vendor/bin/sail` every time, you can configure a bash alias with:

```bash
alias sail='[ -f sail ] && sh sail || sh vendor/bin/sail'
```

## Useful Sail Commands

Sail comes with a bunch of very usefull pre-configured commands out of the box. Below are a series of commands that you may find helpful when developing your application:


### The `shell` Commands

Sail make it easy to start a bash session within your applications Docker container, which allows you inspect the file system as well as execute arbitrary commands. The container is based on a Ubuntu image, so most bash commands should be accepted. If you wish to execute commands a the root user, without running `sudo <command>` every time, you can start a sudo bash session with `sail root-shell`. To interact with your application via the Tinker REPL, you can do so by executing `sail tinker` at any time.

### Interacting with PHP

A lot of the time you may wish to interact with your applications PHP instance (such as to run migrations, or to create new files with `make:` artisan commands, to do this with Laravel Sail, simply prefix all PHP commands with `sail php`. For example, to create a new Model with a resource controller, you would run:

```bash
sail php artisan make:model -cr
```

#### Debugging

To enable Xdebug, the most popular debugging tool for PHP applications, you will need to add the following to your applications `.env` file **before starting sail**:

```dotenv
SAIL_XDEBUG_MODE=develop,debug,coverage
```

**Linux host IP configuration**

Internally, the `XDEBUG_CONFIG` environment variable is defined as `client_host=host.docker.internal` so that Xdebug will be properly configured for Mac and Windows (WSL2). If your local machine is running Linux, you should ensure that you are running Docker Engine 17.06.0+ and Compose 1.16.0+. Otherwise, you will need to manually define this environment variable as shown below.

First, you should determine the correct host IP address to add to the environment variable by running the following command. Typically, the `<container-name>` should be the name of the container that serves your application and often ends with `_laravel.test_1`:

```bash
docker inspect -f {{range.NetworkSettings.Networks}}{{.Gateway}}{{end}} <container-name>
```

Once you have obtained the correct host IP address, you should define the `SAIL_XDEBUG_CONFIG` variable within your application's `.env` file:

```dotenv
SAIL_XDEBUG_CONFIG="client_host=<host-ip-address>"
```


#### Runtimes

Laravel Sail allows you to specify a range of different PHP versions for your application, starting from `7.4` all the way to the most recent `8.2`. To specify a PHP version, you can specify the `context:` of the `build` definition for the `laravel.test` container in your applications `docker-compose.yml`:

```yaml
# PHP 8.2
context: ./vendor/laravel/sail/runtimes/8.2

# PHP 8.1
context: ./vendor/laravel/sail/runtimes/8.1

# PHP 8.0
context: ./vendor/laravel/sail/runtimes/8.0

# PHP 7.4
context: ./vendor/laravel/sail/runtimes/7.4
```

### Interacting with Composer

During your applications development stage, you may wish to install additional dependencies into your application using PHP's package manager, composer. To interact with composer simply run `sail composer <command>`. For example, to install [Socialstream](https://docs.socialstream.dev), you can run the following command:

```bash
sail composer require joelbutcher/socialstream
```

### Interacting with the Database

Laravel Sail comes with a database container ready for you to use with your Laravel Application. As a pre-requisite you will want to update your application's `.env` file with the following values:

```dotenv
DB_HOST=mysql
DB_PORT=3306
DB_DATABASE=laravel
DB_USERNAME=sail
DB_PASSWORD=sail
```

To interact with the database container you can run the `sail mysql` command, this will start a new MySQL session within the database container, allowing you to run arbitrary MySQL queries within it.

## Customising Sail

Since Sail is effectively a wrapper around Docker, you can customise your Laravel Sail installation by publishing `Dockerfile`'s to a new `docker` directory in your applications root directory:

```bash
sail artisan sail:publish
```

Contained within, you will find the necessary files for the different PHP runtimes. You will then want to re-build your Docker environment by executing:

```bash
sail build --no-cache
```